# Kaplan-Senior-Thesis
The objective of this thesis is to compile captive rearing information over the past fourteen years into a comprehensive guide on each step of captive rearing gopher frogs in Georgia. After compiling this guide, multiple variables will be analyzed for efficiency and effect, including temperature and weather data, clutch information, and survival rates. I predict that we will find a correlation between years with greater humidity and rainfall and higher survival rates. I do not yet have a prediction for how egg clutches affect overall data, as I have not viewed the information about these clutches yet.
- add metadata info
- Hypothesis
- Variables
- 
## Edited 1/16/25:
This thesis aims to summarize the fifteen years of Gopher frog captive rearing data from the UGA program and to analyze how stocking densities and weather patterns affect interannual rearing success and the potential for outbreaks of disease or abnormalities. I will estimate random variation in rearing success related to clutch identity. This thesis will formalize the existing rearing protocol for dissemination and use by other amphibian captive-rearing programs. I aim to model the effects of temperature, humidity, rainfall, and stocking densities, on mass at metamorphosis, the time it takes to metamorphize, and disease and abnormalities. I expect development to be slower in cooler, rainier years because of the effects of temperature and light on algal production in aquaculture tanks. I also expect higher mortality in very hot years associated with reduced dissolved oxygen and stress-related outbreaks of disease or abnormalities. Years with moderate temperatures and humidity will likely produce frogs of the greatest mass. It is anticipated that disease outbreaks to be more numerous in tanks with higher stocking densities, and for masses to be higher in tanks with lower stocking densities.
## Edited 2/6/25:
- Hypotheses: I think temperature will be the biggest indicator of larger mass and faster development, with moderate temperatures producting the biggest, fastest growing frogs. Within moderate ranges, warmer temperatures will likely produce faster-growing frogs than cooler temperatures. I do not think humidity levels will affect other variables because the tadpoles are already surrounded by 100% humidity in the mesocosms. 
- Predictions: I hypothesize that warmer, rainier years will increase rate of development and size in tanks due to an increased algal production rate from increased temperatures, which is a food source for tadpoles. However, in years that are cooler and rainier, I expect slower development due to a decreased amount of direct sunlight and warmth. In warmer, drier years, I expect faster development due to increased algal production from increased light exposure. In cooler, drier years, I believe that we will find slower development rates due to decreased algal production. I expect the largest and fastest-growing frogs to be present in years with moderate temperatures, with smaller, slower developing frogs appearing in very hot or very cool years. I expect higher mortality rates in very hot years due to reduced dissolved oxygen or stress-related causes. I anticipate masses to be higher in tanks with lower stocking densities, and lower in tanks with higher stocking densities. I expect mortality to be higher in tanks with higher stocking densities, and lower in tanks with lower stocking densities. I anticipate that temperature will be a more prominent indicator of rate of development and mass at metamorposis than rainfall and humidity. *It is anticipated that disease outbreaks will be more frequent in tanks with higher stocking densities*
- Covariates: Temperature, humidity, rainfall, stocking density, time to metamorphosis, size at metamorphosis, clutch ID
- Nuisance Variables: Dissolved O2
- I think in order to make my thesis as concise as possible it would be a good idea to leave behind the disease/abnormalities. I could touch on it a bit, but I have looked through all of our data sheets and I do not think we have enough information to make a substantial comparison between disease/abnormalities and other variables.
